Well, everyone always talks about security
and worries about it; but really, very few organizations
have really good security programs or processes in place,
so be prepared to face some fear, uncertainty, and doubt
when talking to clients around security.
And, you know, know that it's gonna be front-of-mind
for them, but also know that in a lot of cases,
they don't have a way to deal with that, organizationally.
And, generally, I like to acknowledge the concerns up front
and be ready with a process or a framework.
And, the Cloud Adoption Framework is a really useful tool
to start because it has a specific area around security.
And, I found that if you make it clear
that security is a prominent component,
then the trust level increases with that client.
And, I like to use assessments and checklists
to help baseline current security practices
and compare and contrast what those might look like
in future practices when assets are deployed on cloud.
It's a very non-confrontational way
to evaluate the current state of security practices,
and, maybe, objectively point out where there are some gaps
that may actually be better when organizations move
to the cloud.
And, in fact,
a lot of times organizations find that migrating
to the cloud creates even more security
in their processes and their assets because there's
greater transparency and visibility that's not always
a feature in legacy installations.
I always speak in terms of levels of risk
along a continuum versus "Is it secure or not?"
And, this turns the conversation
into a much more productive trade-off conversation
versus a binary yes/no.
Any chief security officer is going to understand that
there's always a trade off,
and really they're in the business of managing risk.
And so, if you can speak in those terms,
you're gonna get a lot more mileage.
And because the area of security on the cloud is something
that I think needs many more skilled practitioners,
you might want to consider
a security specialty certification
like the AWS Certified Security Specialty
or maybe another security minded certification
like the CISSP.